content marketing is competitive but
there's a certain type of content that
works extremely well do you want to know
what it is hey everyone I'm Neil Patel
and you need to learn how to write this
type of content right
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this Channel and if you're
on YouTube click the alert
notification so what's the type of
content that you need to learn to write
it's actually long form content that is
data oriented I'm not talking about long
form content I'm talking about long form
content that is data oriented and I'll
go into that in depth in a little bit
and I'll give you some stats before we
Dive Right In so a study conducted by
backlink found that the average page on
Google that ranks on the first page
contains
1,447 words now this doesn't mean that
your article needs to contain
1,447 words or longer to rank he was
just saying that's the average if you're
trying to rank for how to tie a tie no
one wants to read
1,447 words if you want to rank for uh
the biography of Abraham Lincoln
1,447 words is not enough either so you
need to think about the topic who else
ranks and that'll give you a good sense
on the length of your article here's
another interesting fact websites with
above average time on site tend to also
rank higher on Google typically if you
have more words on your your page you
tend to get a better average timee of
site now according to our own data from
neil.com we're seeing long form content
with stats and data generating almost
three times more backlinks which helps
our overall sites rankings now when we
don't include data we're not getting as
many backlinks which is why I said long
form content with data is roughly
generating three times roughly more
backlinks than content without data but
here's what's even more interesting
right everyone believes that if you have
long form content and you're generating
more backlinks that you're just going to
get tons of traffic what most people
don't realize is the long form content
that's super in-depth that has all that
stats and data that generates a lot of
links doesn't always generate a lot of
search volume A lot of times people are
searching for stuff like how do I get my
dog to lose weight how do I what is SEO
how does SEO work what does SEO mean
that's kind of like the basic stuff but
that's actually what generates a lot of
the search volume when people search
what's a low interest rate credit card
but that's not really the stuff that
generates the backlinks so if you write
long form content with tons of data and
stats in there you'll get the links
which will cause the rest of your site
to rank higher so how do you write this
kind of content well first off you need
to research your competitors you can go
to Uber suggest you can type in
competitor URLs and look at the top
pages this will show you their most
popular pages
by traffic and backlinks and it even
shows you the people who link to those
pages so now you can hit them up because
if someone links your competitors and
you hit them up the chances are they'll
link to you as well for some weird
reason a lot of web Masters and site
owners try to reach out to people that
don't ever link to their competitors if
no one links to anyone in your space
probably don't know it probably not
willing to link out it's going to be a
much harder time to get those links I
also want you to check out your
competitor's topics So within Uber say
you can put in your compor URLs and see
all the keywords that they rank for this
will show you the topics that they're
going after and this will give you idea
some of the keywords that you should
consider going after and if you take
those keywords and put into the keyword
ideas list within Uber suggest in that
report it'll show you other relat
keywords more longtail ones that you
could potentially go after and they'll
tell you which ones are easy to rank and
hard to rank for for your website now
once you have idea of keywords I want
you to make an outline covering
everything that's relevant to that topic
right right what I mean is if I'm
writing a article on SEO I would want to
cover sight speed metatags on page SEO
broken links uh backlink building I want
to talk about writing content promoting
it on social media interlinking robots
.txt files Google search console you
want to go super in depth because the
more in- depth you go just think
Wikipedia the more Liker you are to rank
and then I want you to add stats and
data and research even videos and image
content if you can't find them go check
out places like Google Scholar where
sometimes you can find a lot of
interesting stats or data or you can
google and find them and make sure you
link out to those resources where you
pull the stats and data from or you can
pay a researcher on upw worker or Fiverr
and when you're writing content you want
to make sure it delivers the need for
the Searcher anyone can create content
around a topic but if your content
solves the problem for the Searcher be
like H I just read Neil site and I got
everything I needed I you need click the
back button and go find other content on
that and when you do that that's the
type of content that's going to rank
higher but keep in mind when you include
stats and data it also pushes you as an
expert remember Google has this thing
called e expertise Authority trust by
showing your expertise Authority and
Trust you're more likely to rank better
which will then get you more traffic
because Google doesn't want people like
me Neil Patel to write articles about
cancer what expert am I I'm not even a
doctor that could actually be misleading
and cause inacurate information to be
ranked on Google and hurt other people
in their lives or their health or their
money or their wealth so that way Google
wants to rank articles from experts and
by doing this it also makes you expert
which helps increase your rankings in
the long run if you need help with this
check out my Ad Agency NP digital where
redo this for companies if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell the people
about it if you have any questions
related to the article leave a comment
below and I'm here to answer it